DevelopmentNotes.md, before:

Development Notes
=================

These are some notes to understand the code.

### running the tests
to run a specific test-class:

```
./grailsw test-app -unit Foo
```

##### run the functional tests

all:

```
./grailsw ./grailsw test-app functional: -inline
```

just the api tests:

```
./grailsw test-app functional: 'org.zenboot.portal.api.**.*' -inline
```

just the browser tests:

```
./grailsw test-app functional: 'org.zenboot.portal.geb.**.*' -inline
```

it is recommended to keep the app running when developing functional tests, so
```
./grailsw

run-app


```

#### the log4j-setup
This [event-definition)[http://grails.github.io/grails-doc/2.3.x/guide/commandLine.html#events]
in [_Events.groovy](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/scripts/_Events.groovy#L6-L10)
takes care that the log4j.properties on the root-dir gets copied in the classpath
This definition in [resources.groovy:6-11](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/conf/spring/resources.groovy#L6-L11)
takes care that the a log4j.properties in the classpath is recognized.

Important is the difference between grail-specific-stuff and everything else. See
the log4j.properties. To switch to debug-logging, change
log4j.appender.console.threshold to debug




#### The Execution Framework

zenboot seems to use the spring-events although the plugin does not seem to be installed. The Execution seem to be the only ApplicationEvent.
The publishing of the event is a huge wall which divides the execution in prePublishing and postpublishing.
#### prePublishing
The prepublishing is complex in terms of calculating necessary Parameters. All
sorts of collections of different types are flying around expressing different
aspects of the preExecution.

There are basically 4 types of ParameterCollections flying around:
* Very near to the UI is a special kind of Map which holds the key/values as lists.
see some converting methods which return a simple map from this params-special-map [ControllerUtils.groovy](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/8547d5eaff56acddf74baef79d76b896ddf9e944/src/groovy/org/zenboot/portal/ControllerUtils.groovy)
* The Parameters which are CONSUMED and/or EMITTED and managed in [ParameterMetaData](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/c6c5b6749630176649eb8fc0e514a59ad82b4d72/src/groovy/org/zenboot/portal/processing/meta/ParameterMetadata.groovy)
and the corresponding collectionClass [ParameterMetaDataList](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/c6c5b6749630176649eb8fc0e514a59ad82b4d72/src/groovy/org/zenboot/portal/processing/meta/ParameterMetadataList.groovy) which can get obtained from a
ScriptletBatchFLow. Unfortunately these objects are also (mis-) used to store
the values which results from overlaying them by ExecutionZoneParameters (see [overlayExecutionZoneParameters](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/543e9f6e5882990b392e5cd4890d19d4424b82b2/grails-app/services/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ExecutionZoneService.groovy#L171))
* The last type used is a Domain-class used to store parameters as collection of
a ExecutionZone or an ExecutionZoneAction. it's the [ProcessingParameter.groovy](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/543e9f6e5882990b392e5cd4890d19d4424b82b2/grails-app/domain/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ProcessingParameter.groovy)

An ideal central Entrypoint would be the createAndPublishExecutionZoneAction-method
of the [ExecutionZoneService](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/services/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ExecutionZoneService.groovy)
It takes an executionZone, a scriptdir and a Map of parameters and can be used for Scripts to execute stacks.

The Controller is in its [execute-closure](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/controllers/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ExecutionZoneController.groovy#L27) (unfortunately?!) not (yet?!) using that method. It creates the
the ExecutionZoneAction via its CommandClass, and calls the publishEvent manually.


#### postPublishing
Such an event is generated in 5 possible ways:
* via the [ExecutionZoneController.groovy:33](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/controllers/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ExecutionZoneController.groovy#L33)
* via the [ExposedExecutionZoneActionController.groovy:51](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/controllers/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ExposedExecutionZoneActionController.groovy#L51) and
[ExposedExecutionZoneActionController.groovy:70](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/controllers/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ExposedExecutionZoneActionController.groovy#L70)
* via the [CronjobService.groovy:27](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/services/org/zenboot/portal/processing/CronjobService.groovy#L27)
* via the [ExecutionZoneService.groovy:106](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/services/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ExecutionZoneService.groovy#L106)

Apart from the technical Details of the Event-system (ProcessingEvent), only the user and an [ExecutionZoneAction](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/domain/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ExecutionZoneAction.groovy)
is passed as parameters. The ExecutionZoneAction is a domain-object, storing basically ONE ScriptletBatch which itself stores (at least) the scripts to execute.

In the first 4 cases the ExecutionZoneAction is created by the [ExecutionZoneService.groovy:81](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/345a46a1dc6059e33e778ab6ed93a2b7674c1192/grails-app/services/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ExecutionZoneService.groovy#L81)
(or another method for the exposed-variant) which basically calculates, based on the ExecutionZone, with some heavy help of [ControllerUtils](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/543e9f6e5882990b392e5cd4890d19d4424b82b2/src/groovy/org/zenboot/portal/ControllerUtils.groovy)
the ProcessingParameters (The ScriptletBatch is added later, see below).

The published ApplicationEvent is then captured by the [ScriptletBatchService:21](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/314a4e84df9689b71324690b1e81ea217d52f999/grails-app/services/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ScriptletBatchService.groovy#L21).
For Async-Support, we use the [executor-plugin](https://github.com/basejump/grails-executor) for async calls. Because it's configurable whether to use async, the method creates a closure.
Which get execute later in [ScriptletBatchService.groovy:43)](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/services/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ScriptletBatchService.groovy#L43).

In the closure, the [ProcessContext](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/77d3fc58dd1bbbbb0073e41efe77d72422626353/src/groovy/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ProcessContext.groovy)
, a runtime-Object, is created and populated.
The ScriptletBatch is created with the help of [buildScriptletBatch](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/314a4e84df9689b71324690b1e81ea217d52f999/grails-app/services/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ScriptletBatchService.groovy#L94)
This method will also call addScriptlet which will [create the process-closure](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/314a4e84df9689b71324690b1e81ea217d52f999/grails-app/services/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ScriptletBatchService.groovy#L127)
which will later be called in the recursive-phase.

After that, the execution enters the recursion-phase by calling [ScriptletBatch.execute](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/domain/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ScriptletBatch.groovy#L32) .

#### Abstract Processable and its two extensions: ScriptletBatch and Scriptlet

The Scriptlet represents a script as grails-Domain-Object. The ScripletBatch represents a whole batch of these scriptlets, also as domain-object.
The execution-logic is implemented in these two classes. We have:
* the execute-method ([Processable](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/domain/org/zenboot/portal/processing/Processable.groovy#L33) /
[ScriptletBatch](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/domain/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ScriptletBatch.groovy#L30) /
not overriden in Scriptlet)
* process-closures ( [ScriptletBatch](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/345a46a1dc6059e33e778ab6ed93a2b7674c1192/grails-app/domain/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ScriptletBatch.groovy#L36) /


The execute-method will deal with Exception-Handling and management of the "side-data" (storing Exceptions and logs, start- and stop-dates etc.) by calling [start/success/failure/stop-methods](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/domain/org/zenboot/portal/processing/Processable.groovy#L85)
before/after it calls the process-method.

In the case of ScriptletBatch-process, it will call execute of all the processables in the list. The process closure of the ScriptLet has been
created in the buildScriptletBatch-phase before.

Because script-ececution is somewhere complicated on its own, let's have an own section on it, because here, ProcessHandlers come into place as well.

#### Execution of a Scriptlet



#### Quick-Hacks/-fixes
In Dev-environment, the [console-plugin](http://grails.org/plugin/console) is activated on http://localhost:8080/zenboot/console

Commit message:

Fix "keep the app running" in DevelopmentNotes.md
+ add a link to geb documentation
+ add a note that the tests require chromedriver

DevelopmentNotes.md, after:

Development Notes
=================

These are some notes to understand the code.

### running the tests
to run a specific test-class:

```
./grailsw test-app -unit Foo
```

##### run the functional tests

all:

```
./grailsw ./grailsw test-app functional: -inline
```

just the api tests:

```
./grailsw test-app functional: 'org.zenboot.portal.api.**.*' -inline
```

just the browser tests:

```
./grailsw test-app functional: 'org.zenboot.portal.geb.**.*' -inline
```

Note that browsertests default to chrome and need the "chromedriver" binary to be installed.
See `GebConfig.groovy` to change to e.g. Firefox. See http://www.gebish.org/ for more documentation
on how to write tests.

it is recommended to keep the app running when developing functional tests, so e.g.
```
./grailsw

grails> run-app

 ...

grails> test-app functional: org.zenboot.portal.geb.**.* -baseUrl=http://localhost:8080/zenboot/
```

Note: this might fail for the first time, as grails executes the integration tests (although
it was asked to execute the functional tests only) which try to access the same db as `run-app`.
Just run it again in this case.

#### the log4j-setup
This [event-definition)[http://grails.github.io/grails-doc/2.3.x/guide/commandLine.html#events]
in [_Events.groovy](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/scripts/_Events.groovy#L6-L10)
takes care that the log4j.properties on the root-dir gets copied in the classpath
This definition in [resources.groovy:6-11](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/conf/spring/resources.groovy#L6-L11)
takes care that the a log4j.properties in the classpath is recognized.

Important is the difference between grail-specific-stuff and everything else. See
the log4j.properties. To switch to debug-logging, change
log4j.appender.console.threshold to debug




#### The Execution Framework

zenboot seems to use the spring-events although the plugin does not seem to be installed. The Execution seem to be the only ApplicationEvent.
The publishing of the event is a huge wall which divides the execution in prePublishing and postpublishing.
#### prePublishing
The prepublishing is complex in terms of calculating necessary Parameters. All
sorts of collections of different types are flying around expressing different
aspects of the preExecution.

There are basically 4 types of ParameterCollections flying around:
* Very near to the UI is a special kind of Map which holds the key/values as lists.
see some converting methods which return a simple map from this params-special-map [ControllerUtils.groovy](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/8547d5eaff56acddf74baef79d76b896ddf9e944/src/groovy/org/zenboot/portal/ControllerUtils.groovy)
* The Parameters which are CONSUMED and/or EMITTED and managed in [ParameterMetaData](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/c6c5b6749630176649eb8fc0e514a59ad82b4d72/src/groovy/org/zenboot/portal/processing/meta/ParameterMetadata.groovy)
and the corresponding collectionClass [ParameterMetaDataList](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/c6c5b6749630176649eb8fc0e514a59ad82b4d72/src/groovy/org/zenboot/portal/processing/meta/ParameterMetadataList.groovy) which can get obtained from a
ScriptletBatchFLow. Unfortunately these objects are also (mis-) used to store
the values which results from overlaying them by ExecutionZoneParameters (see [overlayExecutionZoneParameters](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/543e9f6e5882990b392e5cd4890d19d4424b82b2/grails-app/services/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ExecutionZoneService.groovy#L171))
* The last type used is a Domain-class used to store parameters as collection of
a ExecutionZone or an ExecutionZoneAction. it's the [ProcessingParameter.groovy](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/543e9f6e5882990b392e5cd4890d19d4424b82b2/grails-app/domain/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ProcessingParameter.groovy)

An ideal central Entrypoint would be the createAndPublishExecutionZoneAction-method
of the [ExecutionZoneService](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/services/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ExecutionZoneService.groovy)
It takes an executionZone, a scriptdir and a Map of parameters and can be used for Scripts to execute stacks.

The Controller is in its [execute-closure](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/controllers/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ExecutionZoneController.groovy#L27) (unfortunately?!) not (yet?!) using that method. It creates the
the ExecutionZoneAction via its CommandClass, and calls the publishEvent manually.


#### postPublishing
Such an event is generated in 5 possible ways:
* via the [ExecutionZoneController.groovy:33](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/controllers/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ExecutionZoneController.groovy#L33)
* via the [ExposedExecutionZoneActionController.groovy:51](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/controllers/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ExposedExecutionZoneActionController.groovy#L51) and
[ExposedExecutionZoneActionController.groovy:70](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/controllers/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ExposedExecutionZoneActionController.groovy#L70)
* via the [CronjobService.groovy:27](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/services/org/zenboot/portal/processing/CronjobService.groovy#L27)
* via the [ExecutionZoneService.groovy:106](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/services/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ExecutionZoneService.groovy#L106)

Apart from the technical Details of the Event-system (ProcessingEvent), only the user and an [ExecutionZoneAction](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/domain/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ExecutionZoneAction.groovy)
is passed as parameters. The ExecutionZoneAction is a domain-object, storing basically ONE ScriptletBatch which itself stores (at least) the scripts to execute.

In the first 4 cases the ExecutionZoneAction is created by the [ExecutionZoneService.groovy:81](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/345a46a1dc6059e33e778ab6ed93a2b7674c1192/grails-app/services/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ExecutionZoneService.groovy#L81)
(or another method for the exposed-variant) which basically calculates, based on the ExecutionZone, with some heavy help of [ControllerUtils](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/543e9f6e5882990b392e5cd4890d19d4424b82b2/src/groovy/org/zenboot/portal/ControllerUtils.groovy)
the ProcessingParameters (The ScriptletBatch is added later, see below).

The published ApplicationEvent is then captured by the [ScriptletBatchService:21](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/314a4e84df9689b71324690b1e81ea217d52f999/grails-app/services/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ScriptletBatchService.groovy#L21).
For Async-Support, we use the [executor-plugin](https://github.com/basejump/grails-executor) for async calls. Because it's configurable whether to use async, the method creates a closure.
Which get execute later in [ScriptletBatchService.groovy:43)](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/services/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ScriptletBatchService.groovy#L43).

In the closure, the [ProcessContext](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/77d3fc58dd1bbbbb0073e41efe77d72422626353/src/groovy/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ProcessContext.groovy)
, a runtime-Object, is created and populated.
The ScriptletBatch is created with the help of [buildScriptletBatch](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/314a4e84df9689b71324690b1e81ea217d52f999/grails-app/services/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ScriptletBatchService.groovy#L94)
This method will also call addScriptlet which will [create the process-closure](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/314a4e84df9689b71324690b1e81ea217d52f999/grails-app/services/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ScriptletBatchService.groovy#L127)
which will later be called in the recursive-phase.

After that, the execution enters the recursion-phase by calling [ScriptletBatch.execute](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/domain/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ScriptletBatch.groovy#L32) .

#### Abstract Processable and its two extensions: ScriptletBatch and Scriptlet

The Scriptlet represents a script as grails-Domain-Object. The ScripletBatch represents a whole batch of these scriptlets, also as domain-object.
The execution-logic is implemented in these two classes. We have:
* the execute-method ([Processable](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/domain/org/zenboot/portal/processing/Processable.groovy#L33) /
[ScriptletBatch](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/domain/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ScriptletBatch.groovy#L30) /
not overriden in Scriptlet)
* process-closures ( [ScriptletBatch](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/345a46a1dc6059e33e778ab6ed93a2b7674c1192/grails-app/domain/org/zenboot/portal/processing/ScriptletBatch.groovy#L36) /


The execute-method will deal with Exception-Handling and management of the "side-data" (storing Exceptions and logs, start- and stop-dates etc.) by calling [start/success/failure/stop-methods](https://github.com/hybris/zenboot/blob/master/grails-app/domain/org/zenboot/portal/processing/Processable.groovy#L85)
before/after it calls the process-method.

In the case of ScriptletBatch-process, it will call execute of all the processables in the list. The process closure of the ScriptLet has been
created in the buildScriptletBatch-phase before.

Because script-ececution is somewhere complicated on its own, let's have an own section on it, because here, ProcessHandlers come into place as well.

#### Execution of a Scriptlet



#### Quick-Hacks/-fixes
In Dev-environment, the [console-plugin](http://grails.org/plugin/console) is activated on http://localhost:8080/zenboot/console
